Morning everyone.  Now, in today’s talk, I’m going to talk about tunnels, and I’m going to talk about the main ways in which tunnels are constructed. 
Now, I’m sure you know what a tunnel is, but I’ll give you a definition anyway.  It’s an underground passageway, and it’s completely enclosed, except for exits, usually one at each end.  
Before you can start building any tunnel, it’s necessary to perform a comprehensive geotechnical investigation of ground conditions.  This is done by taking samples from boreholes; that means drilling a narrow shaft into the ground and analysing the rock.  After this has been done, engineers can choose the most appropriate method for excavating the tunnel and supporting the ground.  If these samples don’t reveal enough information – maybe it’s difficult to detect the exact location of faults for example, then a pilot tunnel will be drilled.  Pilot tunnels have a smaller diameter than the main tunnel, and so it will be easier to support, should any problems arise.  This smaller tunnel can be incorporated into the final tunnel later on.  Another alternative is to drill horizontal boreholes ahead of the advancing tunnel face.  Now, are there any questions before I go on to construction methods?  No?  Good.
So, the type of construction you choose will depend on a wide range of things: the type of rock, the ground water conditions, how long and how wide your tunnel is going to be, how far underground it is and the final use of the tunnel.  There are three main types of tunnel.  The cut and cover technique; this is when a trench is dug up and then covered over; the bored tunnel, which is constructed without removing the ground above it, and the immersed tube tunnel, which is used underwater.
Let’s look at these in more detail, starting with the cut and cover method.  As I said, this is done by digging a trench and roofing it with an overhead support system strong enough to carry whatever is to built over the tunnel.  There are two types of cut and cover method.  In the bottom-up method, a trench is built, with ground support as necessary, and the tunnel is constructed in the trench, using concrete or arches, or even brickwork.  Then the trench is filled in again.  But there’s another method – the top-down method, in which the roof beams and the side walls are put into place before any of the ground is dug out.  Only when the roof and the walls are in place does excavation take place.
